
LIBPFASST
=========

LIBPFASST is a lightweight implementation of the Parallel Full
Approximation Scheme in Space and Time (PFASST) algorithm.  It is
written in Fortran (mostly F90, with some F03), but can be interfaced
with C and C++ fairly easily.

Please see the documentation in 'docs' and examples in 'examples' for
usage information.

An online version of the documentation is available at

  https://libpfasst.readthedocs.org/en/latest/


COMPILERS
=========

LIBPFASST has been successfully compiled with

  * GNU gfortran 4.5 and 4.8.

Before compiling, you will need an MPI library installed.  On Debian
or Ubuntu machines, we recommend MPICH2:

  $ sudo apt-get install mpich2 libmpich2-dev


COMPILING
=========

The Makefile included in the LIBPFASST distribution uses the following
defaults:

  * Fortran: 'mpif90'
  * C:       'gcc' 

You can change these defaults by creating (or symlinking, see
mk/*.defs) a .defs file (eg, Makefile.defs) in the LIBPFASST
directory.

Once you have configured your compilers, you can build LIBPFASST by
running 'make' in the LIBPFASST directory.  The resulting (static)
library should be in the 'build' directory.


EXAMPLES
========

Once LIBPFASST is compiled, you can build the examples individually.
The 'mpi-advection' and 'pth-advection' example require FFTW3.  If you
already have FFTW3 installed on your machine, please set the FFTW3
environment variable appropriately.  For example:

  $ export FFTW3=$HOME/opt

If you do not have FFTW3 installed, simply run the 'fftw3' make rule
from the LIBPFASST directory:

  $ make fftw3

This will download and compile a local (static) copy of FFTW3.  Once
you have FFTW installed, you can build the mpi-advection and
pth-advection examples by:

  $ cd examples/mpi-advection
  $ make

Similarly, some other examples may require HDF5.  If you do not
already have HDF5 installed, simply run the 'hdf5' make rule from the
LIBPFASST directory:

  $ make hdf5

This will download and compile a local (static) copy of HDF5.


LICENSE
=======

LIBPFASST is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

LIBPFASST is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with LIBPFASST.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
